# Automated Covid-Proof Fan

This project was created on the idea that many standard fans produce unnecessary and excess energy. Too often, a standard fan will be left on, even though the desired room temperature has been reached, generating excess energy and increasing one's electricity bill. The goal of this project was to provide a device that would reduce the amount of energy generated. Our solution was to incorporate a temperature sensor to be constantly reading the surrounding temperature and a small DC motor to mimic the rotation similarly seen from standing tower fans. Due to the COVID protocols that arose this year with the deadly pandemic, contactless options became of importance to limit the spread of the virus. With that, we wanted to incorporate our own contactless options by using a gesture sensor.

## What I Learned
I discovered how crucial time management was for our assignments. Without a framework in place, it is difficult to balance various tasks early on in a project, which caused us to slip behind schedule. We would not have encountered as many difficulties and roadblocks if we had effectively handled our time. This aids in improving our capacity to efficiently convey our ideas to other team members. For the setup of our project, we gained knowledge on how to connect and wire a variety of sensors and components as well as how to resolve problems. When connecting all the sensors to the board during the project, there were numerous software and circuitry issues, and our fan system did not function.When we tried to troubleshoot them, we couldn't figure out what was wrong, so we opted to test each sensor separately before putting everything back together. This stage showed us that rather than addressing the entire project at once, we should test things out one step at a time on a specific area of the total. Finally, working on this project gave us the chance to hone our Python programming abilities and gain experience with hardware programming interfaces.
